[Applause]
at 7:45 a.m. opened the doors to a
building dedicated to building yet only
breaks me down a march down hallways
cleaned up after me everyday by regular
janitors but I never had the decency to
honor their names lockers
left open like teenage boys mouths when
teenage girls wear clothes that covers
the insecurities but exposes everything
else masculinity
mimics by men who grew up with no
fathers camouflage worn by bullies who
are dangerously armed but need hugs
teachers pay less than what it cost them
to be here oceans of adolescents come
here to receive lessons but never
learned to swim part like the Red Sea
when the bell rings this is a training
ground my high school is Chicago diverse
and segregated on purpose social lines
are barbed wire labels like regulars and
honors resonate I am an honest but go
home with regular students who are
soldiers in territory that owns them
this is a training ground to sort out
the regulars from the honors a
reoccurring cycle built to recycle the
trash of this system trained at a young
age to capitalize letters taught now the
capitalism raises you but you have to
step on someone else to get there this
is a training ground but one group is
taught to lead and the other is made to
follow no wonder so many of my people
spit bars because the truth is hard to
swallow the need for degrees has left so
many people frozen homework is stressful
but when you go home every day and your
home is work you don't want to pick up
any assignments reading textbooks is
stressful but reading does not matter
when you feel your story is already
written even
dead or getting booked taking tests is
stressful but bubbling in a scantron
does not stop bullets from bursting I
hear education systems are failing but I
believe they're succeeding at what
they're built to do to train you to keep
you on track to track down an American
dream that has failed so many of us all
[Applause]
[Music]